Over the past few days, I've
been traveling through the
Middle East and Europe working
to renew our alliances,
enhance our common security,
and propose a new partnership
between the United States
and the Muslim world.
But even as I'm abroad, I'm
firmly focused on the other
pressing challenges we face --
including the urgent need to
reform our health care system.
Even as we speak, Congress is
preparing to introduce and
debate health reform legislation
that is the product of many
months of effort
and deliberation.
And if you're like any of the
Americans I've met across this
country who know all too well
that the soaring costs of health
care make our current
course unsustainable,
I imagine you'll be watching
their progress closely.
I'm talking about the families
I've met whose spiraling
premiums and out-of-pocket
expenses are pushing them into
bankruptcy or forcing them to
go without the check-ups or
prescriptions they need.
Business owners who fear they'll
be forced to choose between
keeping their doors open
or covering their workers.
Americans who rightly worry that
the ballooning costs of Medicare
and Medicaid could lead to
fiscal catastrophe down the road.
Simply put, the
status quo is broken.
We cannot continue this way.
If we do nothing, everyone's
health care will be put in jeopardy.
Within a decade, we'll spend one
dollar out of every five we earn
on health care -- and we'll keep
getting less for our money.
And that's why fixing what's wrong with our health care
system is no longer a
luxury we hope to achieve --
it's a necessity we
cannot postpone any longer.
The growing consensus around
that reality has led an
unprecedented coalition to
come together for change.
Unlike past attempts at
reforming our health care
system, everyone
is at the table --
patients advocates and health insurers; business and labor;
Democrats and Republicans alike.
A few weeks ago, some of these
improbable allies committed to
cut national health care
spending by two trillion dollars
over the next decade.
What makes this so remarkable is
that it probably wouldn't have
happened just a few
short years ago.
But today, at this
historic juncture,
even old adversaries are united
around the same goal: quality,
affordable health care
for all Americans.
Now, I know that when you bring
together disparate groups with
differing views, there
will be lively debate.
And that's a debate I welcome.
But what we can't accept is
reform that just invests more
money in the status quo -- reform that throws good money
after bad habits.
Instead, we must attack the root causes of skyrocketing health care costs.
Now, some of these costs are
the result of unwarranted
profiteering that has no place in our health care system,
and in too many communities,
folks are paying higher costs
without receiving
better care in return.
And yet we know, for example,
that there are places like the
Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, the
Cleveland Clinic in Ohio,
and other institutions that
offer some of the highest
quality of care in the nation at
some of the lowest costs in the nation.
We should learn from their
successes and promote the best
practices, not the
most expensive ones.
That's how we'll achieve reform
that fixes what doesn't work,
and builds on what does.
This week, I conveyed to
Congress my belief that any
health care reform must be built
around fundamental reforms that
lower costs, improve
quality and coverage,
and also protect
consumer choice.
And that means if you like the plan you have, you can keep it.
If you like the doctor you have,
you can keep your doctor, too.
The only change you'll see are
falling costs as our reforms take hold.
I've also made it very clear to
Congress that we must develop a
plan that doesn't add
to our budget deficit.
My budget included a historic
down payment on reform,
and we'll work with Congress to
fully cover the costs through
rigorous spending reductions and
appropriate additional revenues.
We'll eliminate waste, fraud,
and abuse in our health care
system, but we'll also take on
key causes of rising costs --
saving billions while providing
better care to the American people.
Now, all across America, our families are making hard choices
when it comes to health care.
Now, it's time for Washington
to make the right ones.
It's time to deliver.
And I'm absolutely convinced
that if we keep working together
and living up to our
mutual responsibilities;
if we place the American
people's interests above the
special interests; we will seize
this historic opportunity to
finally fix what ails our
broken health care system,
and strengthen our economy and
our country now and for decades to come.